=head1 NAME

perl-web-datetime - Date and time for Web

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The perl-web-datetime package contains modules for handling date and
time values in the context of Web-related protocols and formats.

=head1 MODULES

Following modules are available:

=over 4

=item L<Web::DateTime::Parser>

Parser for date and time string values, which can also be used for
conformance checking of those values.

=item L<Web::DateTime>

Parsed date and time object, which has component accessors,
serializers, and cast methods.

=item L<Web::DateTime::TimeZone>

Parsed time zone object, which has component accessors and a
serializer.

=item L<Web::DateTime::Duration>

Parsed duration object, which has component accessors and serializers.

=item L<Web::DateTime::WeeklyTimeRange>

Parsed weekly time range object, which has a serializer.

=item L<Web::DateTime::Clock>

Clocks.

=back

=head1 SPECIFICATIONS

Date and time formats defined by following specifications and
protocols are supported (for details, see documentation of relevant
modules):

HTML, Schema.org, Data-Vocabulary.org, HTTP, Cookies, JavaScript, Atom
0.3, Atom 1.0, RSS 1.0, RSS 2.0, OGP, RDF, PKIX.

=head1 SEE ALSO

SuikaWiki:Webの日時形式
<https://wiki.suikawiki.org/n/Web%E3%81%AE%E6%97%A5%E6%99%82%E5%BD%A2%E5%BC%8F>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2008-2016 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
