=head1 NAME

Web::DateTime::Clock - Clocks

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Web::DateTime::Clock;
  
  $clock = Web::DateTime::Clock->realtime_clock;
  warn $clock->();
  
  $clock = Web::DateTime::Clock->monotonic_clock;
  warn $clock->();

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Web::DateTime::Clock> module defines clocks.

=head1 CLOCKS

A clock is a Perl subroutine that returns a number representing the
number of seconds from some epoch.  It can have fractional part.

In addition to the clocks provided by this module, applications can
define their own clocks, as long as they conform to the definition
above.  For example, a test script can use a constant subroutine as a
clock.

=head1 METHODS

There are following methods:

=over 4

=item $clock = Web::DateTime::Clock->realtime_clock

Return a walltime clock, i.e. a clock that returns the "real" time.
The number represents the number of seconds from the Epoch, possibly
with fractional part.  This is the so-called "unix time".

=item $clock = Web::DateTime::Clock->monotonic_clock

Return a monotonic clock, i.e. a clock whose value is monotonically
increasing.  The number represents the number of seconds from a
clock-dependent epoch, possibly with fractional part.

=back

=head1 SPECIFICATION

High Resolution Time Level 2 <https://w3c.github.io/hr-time/>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2016 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
