=head1 NAME

Web::DateTime::Duration - Durations for Web

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Web::DateTime::Duration;
  $duration = Web::DateTime::Duration->new_from_seconds (6 * 60);
  warn $duration->to_duration_string;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Web::DateTime::Duration> class represents a duration, i.e. a
length of time.  A duration is a tuple of (number of seconds, number
of months, direction).

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item $duration = Web::DateTime::Duration->new_from_seconds ($number)

Create a new duration object with the specified number of seconds.
Number of months is set to zero.  The direction is set by the sign of
the specified number.  The number of seconds can have a fractional
part.

=item $number = $duration->seconds

Return the number of seconds, which might have a fractional part.  The
value is always non-negative.

=item $number = $duration->months

Return the number of months.  The value is always a non-negative
integer.

=item $string = $duration->to_duration_string

Return an HTML valid duration string [HTML] representing the duration
of the object, ignoring the direction.  Please note that if the
duration has a non-zero number of months, C<undef> is returned
instead, as the format cannot encode the number of months.

=item $string = $duration->to_vevent_duration_string

Return an HTML valid vevent duration string [HTML] representing the
duration of the object, ignoring the direction and the fractional part
of the seconds.  Please note that of the duration has a non-zero
number of months, C<undef> is returned instead, as the format cannot
encode the number of months.

=item $string = $duration->to_xs_duration

Return an XML Schema C<xs:duration> string [XSDT] representing the
duration of the object.

=back

=head1 SPECIFICATIONS

=over 4

=item HTML

HTML Standard <http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/>.

=item XSDT

W3C XML Schema Definition Language (XSD) 1.1 Part 2: Datatypes
<http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema11-2/>.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2014 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
