=head1 NAME

Web::DateTime::Interval - Interval between dates for Web

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Web::DateTime::Interval;
  $interval = Web::DateTime::Interval->new_from_start_and_end ($dt1, $dt2);
  warn $interval->to_start_and_end_string;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Web::DateTime::Interval> class represents a time interval between
two dates and times.

=head1 METHODS

Following methods are available:

=over 4

=item $interval = Web::DateTime::Interval->new_from_start_and_end ($dt1, $dt2)

Create a new interval object from start and end L<Web::DateTime>
objects.  The first date/time must be less than or equal to the second
date/time.

=item $interval = Web::DateTime::Interval->new_from_start_and_duration ($dt, $duration)

Create a new interval object from start L<Web::DateTime> object and
L<Web::DateTime::Duration> object.  The duration must be positive and
must not have non-zero months.

=item false = $interval->is_date_time

=item false = $interval->is_time_zone

=item false = $interval->is_duration

=item true = $interval->is_interval

Return whether the object is of the specified type or not.

=item $dt = $interval->start_date_time

Return the L<Web::DateTime> object representing the start date and
time of the interval.

=item $dt = $interval->end_date_time

Return the L<Web::DateTime> object representing the end date and time
of the interval.

=item $duration = $interval->duration

Return the L<Web::DateTime::Duration> object representing the duration
between the start and end dates and times.

=item $string = $interval->to_start_and_end_string

Return the string representing the interval, using the format of two
valid global date and time strings, which is appropriate for vEvent
microdata [HTML].

This can also be used as an ISO 8601 time interval representation in
most cases.

=item $string = $interval->to_start_and_duration_string

Return the string representing the interval, using the format of a valid
global date and time string and an vevent duration string, which is
appropriate for vEvent microdata [HTML].

This can also be used as an ISO 8601 time interval representation in
most cases.

=back

=head1 SPECIFICATION

=over 4

=item HTML

HTML Standard <http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/>.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2014 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
