=head1 NAME

Web::DateTime::TimeZone - Time zone for Web

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Web::DateTime::TimeZone;
  $tz = Web::DateTime::TimeZone->new_from_offset (+9*60*60+0*60);
  warn $tz->to_offset_string;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Web::DateTime::TimeZone> class can be used to represent a time
zone.

=head1 METHODS

Following methods are available:

=over 4

=item $tz = Web::DateTime::TimeZone->new_utc

Create a new time zone object representing the UTC time zone.

=item $tz = Web::DateTime::TimeZone->new_from_offset ($integer)

Create a new time zone object whose offset is the integer (in seconds)
specified as the argument.

=item false = $tz->is_datetime

=item true = $tz->is_time_zone

=item false = $tz->is_duration

=item false = $tz->is_period

Return whether the object is of the specified type or not.

=item $number = $tz->offset_as_seconds

Return the number of seconds of the time-zone offset.

=item $sign = $tz->offset_sign

Return the sign of the time-zone offset.  If the offset is positive,
number C<+1> is returned.  Otherwise, number C<-1> is returned.

=item $number = $tz->offset_hour

Return the hour component of the time-zone offset (without sign).

=item $number = $tz->offset_minute

Return the minute component of the time-zone offset.

=item $string = $tz->to_offset_string

Serialize the time-zone offset as an HTML time-zone offset string
[HTML].

=back

=head1 DEPENDENCY

The module requires Perl 5.8 or later.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Web::DateTime>.

=head1 SPECIFICATION

=over 4

=item HTML

HTML Standard <http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/>.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2008-2014 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
